CSS_cleaner
===========



What is CSS_cleaner?
--------------------

CSS_cleaner is a program that checks html document on specific url (could be on local server or not) for css files, 
which are then combined, validated and cleaned. CSS_cleaner detects selectors,
that are not legit and fixes them, removes unused selectors, simplifies overspecified
selectors, removes or combines duplicated selectors and finds classes in HTML file that 
are not declared in CSS.

CSS_cleaner does not fix syntax errors like missing brackets (it only warns you about them)
and it does not check for asynchronically added HTML or imported CSS files.



What are the requirements:
--------------------------

Node.js and Jquery. If you pull this program from here, you get all the required node modules and jquery library.

How to use it?
--------------

Open command prompt, go to directory with a program and type:

node css_cleaner.js url

where url is url of a html document.

examples:
---------

node css_cleaner.js http://www.mypage.com

You can also specify some options:

node css_cleaner.js url 1

This will only fix selectors that differ from correct selector in one letter - the difference is
calculated with Damerau-Levensthein difference. 0 means selectors will not be replaced and default(no argument) is 5.

node css_cleaner.js url 5 deletionOff

deletionOff is an argument that tells the program not to delete unused selectors. Default is deletionOn.

node css_cleaner.js url 5 deletionOn simplificationOff

the simplificationOff is an argument that tells the program not to simplify selectors. If you will
be having performance issues, try calling

node css_cleaner.js url 5 deletionOff simplificationOff

Deleting and simplifying are by far the slowest operations, since they relly on jquery.

node css_cleaner.js url 5 deletionOn simplificationOn compressionOn

The last argument compressionOn tells the program to compress the css file for production use (it basicaly removes all the white space and page breaks).
Default is compressionOff.

What is the result?
-------------------

The program outputs new optimized css file and a logfile, specifying what did program do. 

Be warned: there are not all selectors specified in the program library (just the standardized ones), 
so some very rare selectors might get fixed even if they are correct, 
if you don't adjust distance argument to 0.

Please feel free to use this software however you like, share bug reports, fix code or update program library
(it is on the bottom of node_cleaner.js file in form of a javascript object and some arrays).  

Examples
--------

You can see how the program works by checking the example in the example folder. index.php is a file with two
CSS files (css1 and css2), optimizedCss and logFile are generated by the program.  




  



